## OOPS Concepts: 
--- 
## Wrapper Classes: 

Wrapper classes in Java provide a way to use primitive data types (like `int`, `char`, etc.) as objects. Each of the 8  primitive data types has a corresponding wrapper class in the `java.lang` package.

## Why Use Wrapper Classes?
1. **Collection Framework:** The Java Collections Framework (like ArrayList, HashMap, etc.) works with objects. To store primitive types in these collections, you need to use their wrapper classes.
2. **Utility Methods:** Wrapper classes provide many utility methods for converting between types and parsing strings.
3. **Null Values:** Wrapper classes can be null [ Explained at end ], which can be useful to denote the absence of a value. Primitive types cannot be null.
4. **Serialization:** Primitive DT cannot directly serializable.

## Auto-Boxing and Unboxing

**Java 5** introduced auto-boxing and unboxing to automatically convert between primitive types and their corresponding wrapper objects.

- **Auto-boxing:** Automatic conversion of primitive types to their corresponding wrapper class.

- **Unboxing:** Automatic conversion of wrapper classes back to their corresponding primitive types.

## Methods in Wrapper Classes
Wrapper classes provide many useful methods. Here are a few examples:

1. `Integer.parseInt(String s)`: Parses the string argument as a signed decimal integer.
2. `Double.parseDouble(String s)`: Returns a new double initialized to the value represented by the specified string.
3. `Boolean.valueOf(String s)`: Returns a Boolean with a value represented by the specified string.
4. `Character.isDigit(char ch)`: Determines if the specified character is a digit.
5. `String.valueOf(char ch)`: Converts different types of values into string.

* Exception (`NumberFormatException`) Occured: 
```java
    int a = Integer.parseInt("abcd");
    System.out.println(a) // java.lang.NumberFormatException

    int a = Integer.parseInt("12");
    System.out.println(a) // 12
```

* Notes: 

## What is the difference between `new Integer(123)` and `Integer.valueOf(123)`?

- `new Integer(123)` creates a new object every time it is called. `Integer.valueOf(123)` may return a cached object if the value is between -128 and 127

```java
    Integer a = new Integer(123);
    Integer b = new Integer(123);
    System.out.println(a == b); // false

    Integer c = Integer.valueOf(123);
    Integer d = Integer.valueOf(123);
    System.out.println(c == d); // true
```

* Wrapper classes in Java allow null values, which can be very useful in various scenarios:

1. **Storing Null Values in Collections**
2. **Nullable Return Values** - When a method might need to return a value or indicate the absence of a value, using wrapper classes allows for the return of null. This is not possible with primitive types.
3. **Database Operations** - When working with databases, it's common to encounter nullable columns. Using wrapper classes allows you to map these nullable columns to Java objects directly, preserving the null values from the database.
4. **JSON Parsing and Serialization** - When dealing with JSON data, fields might be optional or null. Using wrapper classes ensures that null values are correctly handled during parsing and serialization.
